README.md, before:

# khtool
This is a simple tool for querying or changing the settings of Neumann KH DSP loudspeakers via the Sennheiser Sound Control Protocol. 

## Libraries Required

1. pyssc `pip3 install pyssc`

## Usage

You must specify the name of the network interface to which the speakers are connected.
```
python3 ./khtool.py -i [interface name]
```

## Examples

Query speakers

```
python3 ./khtool.py -i en1 -q
*** Device: Right ***
IPv6 address: fe80::2a36:38ff:fexx:xxxx
{"device":{"identity":{"vendor":"Georg Neumann GmbH"}}}
{"device":{"identity":{"product":"KH 80"}}}
{"device":{"identity":{"serial":"6372436xxx000000"}}}
{"device":{"identity":{"version":"1_3_1"}}}
{"ui":{"logo":{"brightness":50}}}
{"audio":{"in":{"gain":0.0}}}
{"audio":{"in":{"phase_invert":false}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"level":90.0}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"dimm":0.0}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"delay":0}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"mute":false}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"solo":false}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"phase_correction":true}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"limiter_mode":1}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"enabled":[true,true,true,true,true,true,true,true,true,true]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"type":["PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC"]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"frequency":[134.243,166.792,67.255,111.412,78.469,1224.043,643.824,93.657,17999.688,51.878]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"q":[8.428,2.800,7.905,10.234,9.120,3.191,2.952,12.886,0.370,6.385]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"gain":[0.752,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"boost":[-9.776,-8.757,-9.036,4.752,3.933,-2.062,1.176,3.494,-0.523,1.308]}}}}

*** Device: Left ***
IPv6 address: fe80::2a36:38ff:fexx:xxxx
{"device":{"identity":{"vendor":"Georg Neumann GmbH"}}}
{"device":{"identity":{"product":"KH 80"}}}
{"device":{"identity":{"serial":"6382437xxx000000"}}}
{"device":{"identity":{"version":"1_3_1"}}}
{"ui":{"logo":{"brightness":50}}}
{"audio":{"in":{"gain":0.0}}}
{"audio":{"in":{"phase_invert":false}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"level":90.0}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"dimm":0.0}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"delay":0}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"mute":false}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"solo":false}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"phase_correction":true}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"limiter_mode":1}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"enabled":[true,true,true,true,true,true,true,true,true,true]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"type":["PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC"]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"frequency":[64.476,106.976,98.223,134.101,167.905,49.531,1186.596,78.141,17998.848,198.220]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"q":[16.000,0.394,16.000,12.241,9.646,2.097,3.225,9.464,0.381,15.957]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"gain":[0.737,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"boost":[-3.625,-3.019,-3.020,-6.370,-7.147,2.581,-2.239,3.464,-0.529,-4.120]}}}}
```

Set logo brightness
```
python3 ./khtool.py -i en1 --brightness 50
*** Device: Right ***
{"ui":{"logo":{"brightness":50}}}

*** Device: Left ***
{"ui":{"logo":{"brightness":50}}}
```

Mute speakers
```
python3 ./khtool.py -i en1 --mute
Used Device:  Right
IPv6 address: fe80::2a36:38ff:fexx:xxxx
{"audio":{"out":{"mute":true}}}
```

Unmute speakers
```
python3 ./khtool.py -i en1 --unmute
Used Device:  Right
IPv6 address: fe80::2a36:38ff:fexx:xxxx
{"audio":{"out":{"mute":false}}}
```

Save settings (not supported on KH 750 DSP)
```
python3 ./khtool.py -i en1 --save         
*** Device: Right ***
{"device":{"save_settings":true}}

*** Device: Left ***
{"device":{"save_settings":true}}
```

Using the expert option - e.g. query of the input level
``` 
python3 ./khtool.py -i en1 -t 1 --expert '{"m":{"audio":null}}'
Used Device:  Right
IPv6 address: fe80::2a36:38ff:fexx:xxxx
{"m":{"audio":-94.1}}
```

Backup settings to JSON file (The restore will be implemented in a future version. I use it currently to compare the settings with diff after a MA 1 setup.) 
```
./khtool.py -i en1 -b backup-230101.json --comment "MA1 Adjustment with Lowshelf 75hz, -0.7db, q1.0"
```

Print help
```
python3 ./khtool.py -h
usage: khtool.py [-h] [--scan] [-q] [-b BACKUP] [--comment COMMENT] [--save]
                 [--brightness BRIGHTNESS] [--delay DELAY] [--dimm DIMM]
                 [--level LEVEL] [--mute] [--unmute] -i INTERFACE
                 [-t {all,0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8}] [-v]

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --scan                scan for devices and ignore the khtool.json file
  -q, --query           query loudspeaker(s)
  -b BACKUP, --backup BACKUP
                        generate json backup of loudspeaker(s) and save it to
                        [filename]
  --comment COMMENT     comment for backup file
  --save                performs a save_settings command to the devices (only
                        for KH 80/KH 150)
  --brightness BRIGHTNESS
                        set logo brightness [0-100] (only for KH 80/KH 150)
  --delay DELAY         set delay in 1/48khz samples [0-3360]
  --dimm DIMM           set dimm in dB [-120-0]
  --level LEVEL         set level in dB [0-120]
  --mute                mute speaker(s)
  --unmute              unmute speaker(s)
  -i INTERFACE, --interface INTERFACE
                        network interface to use (e.g. en0)
  -t {all,0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8}, --target {all,0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8}
                        use all speakers or only the selected one
  -v, --version         show program's version number and exit
```

## Note

The tool was only tested with a pair of Neumann KH 80 DSP speakers and a KH 750 DSP subwoofer under macOS Monterey. Python3 must be installed on macOS to use the tool. Communication with the speakers is exclusively via IPv6. Therefore, it must be activated in the operating system.

Use at your own risk.

Commit message:

added restore feature, setting interface name in send_ssc

README.md, after:

# khtool
This is a simple tool for querying or changing the settings of Neumann KH DSP loudspeakers via the Sennheiser Sound Control Protocol. 

## Libraries Required

1. pyssc `pip3 install pyssc`

## Usage

You must specify the name of the network interface to which the speakers are connected.
```
python3 ./khtool.py -i [interface name]
```

## Examples

Query speakers

```
python3 ./khtool.py -i en1 -q
*** Device: Right ***
IPv6 address: fe80::2a36:38ff:fexx:xxxx
{"device":{"identity":{"vendor":"Georg Neumann GmbH"}}}
{"device":{"identity":{"product":"KH 80"}}}
{"device":{"identity":{"serial":"6372436xxx000000"}}}
{"device":{"identity":{"version":"1_3_1"}}}
{"ui":{"logo":{"brightness":50}}}
{"audio":{"in":{"gain":0.0}}}
{"audio":{"in":{"phase_invert":false}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"level":90.0}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"dimm":0.0}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"delay":0}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"mute":false}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"solo":false}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"phase_correction":true}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"limiter_mode":1}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"enabled":[true,true,true,true,true,true,true,true,true,true]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"type":["PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC"]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"frequency":[134.243,166.792,67.255,111.412,78.469,1224.043,643.824,93.657,17999.688,51.878]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"q":[8.428,2.800,7.905,10.234,9.120,3.191,2.952,12.886,0.370,6.385]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"gain":[0.752,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"boost":[-9.776,-8.757,-9.036,4.752,3.933,-2.062,1.176,3.494,-0.523,1.308]}}}}

*** Device: Left ***
IPv6 address: fe80::2a36:38ff:fexx:xxxx
{"device":{"identity":{"vendor":"Georg Neumann GmbH"}}}
{"device":{"identity":{"product":"KH 80"}}}
{"device":{"identity":{"serial":"6382437xxx000000"}}}
{"device":{"identity":{"version":"1_3_1"}}}
{"ui":{"logo":{"brightness":50}}}
{"audio":{"in":{"gain":0.0}}}
{"audio":{"in":{"phase_invert":false}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"level":90.0}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"dimm":0.0}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"delay":0}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"mute":false}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"solo":false}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"phase_correction":true}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"limiter_mode":1}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"enabled":[true,true,true,true,true,true,true,true,true,true]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"type":["PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC","PARAMETRIC"]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"frequency":[64.476,106.976,98.223,134.101,167.905,49.531,1186.596,78.141,17998.848,198.220]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"q":[16.000,0.394,16.000,12.241,9.646,2.097,3.225,9.464,0.381,15.957]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"gain":[0.737,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000,0.000]}}}}
{"audio":{"out":{"equalizer":{"boost":[-3.625,-3.019,-3.020,-6.370,-7.147,2.581,-2.239,3.464,-0.529,-4.120]}}}}
```

Set logo brightness
```
python3 ./khtool.py -i en1 --brightness 50
*** Device: Right ***
{"ui":{"logo":{"brightness":50}}}

*** Device: Left ***
{"ui":{"logo":{"brightness":50}}}
```

Mute speakers
```
python3 ./khtool.py -i en1 --mute
Used Device:  Right
IPv6 address: fe80::2a36:38ff:fexx:xxxx
{"audio":{"out":{"mute":true}}}
```

Unmute speakers
```
python3 ./khtool.py -i en1 --unmute
Used Device:  Right
IPv6 address: fe80::2a36:38ff:fexx:xxxx
{"audio":{"out":{"mute":false}}}
```

Save settings (not supported on KH 750 DSP)
```
python3 ./khtool.py -i en1 --save         
*** Device: Right ***
{"device":{"save_settings":true}}

*** Device: Left ***
{"device":{"save_settings":true}}
```

Using the expert option - e.g. query of the input level
``` 
python3 ./khtool.py -i en1 -t 1 --expert '{"m":{"audio":null}}'
Used Device:  Right
IPv6 address: fe80::2a36:38ff:fexx:xxxx
{"m":{"audio":-94.1}}
```

Backup settings to JSON file
```
./khtool.py -i en1 --backup backup-230101.json --comment "MA1 Adjustment with Lowshelf 75hz, -0.7db, q1.0"
```

Restore settings
```
./khtool.py -i en1 --restore backup-230101.json
```

Print help
```
python3 ./khtool.py -h
usage: khtool.py [-h] [--scan] [-q] [-b BACKUP] [--comment COMMENT] [--save]
                 [--brightness BRIGHTNESS] [--delay DELAY] [--dimm DIMM]
                 [--level LEVEL] [--mute] [--unmute] -i INTERFACE
                 [-t {all,0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8}] [-v]

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --scan                scan for devices and ignore the khtool.json file
  -q, --query           query loudspeaker(s)
  --backup BACKUP       generate json backup of loudspeaker(s) and save it to
                        [filename]
  --restore RESTORE     restore configuration from [filename]
  --comment COMMENT     comment for backup file
  --save                performs a save_settings command to the devices (only
                        for KH 80/KH 150)
  --brightness BRIGHTNESS
                        set logo brightness [0-100] (only for KH 80/KH 150)
  --delay DELAY         set delay in 1/48khz samples [0-3360]
  --dimm DIMM           set dimm in dB [-120-0]
  --level LEVEL         set level in dB [0-120]
  --mute                mute speaker(s)
  --unmute              unmute speaker(s)
  --expert EXPERT       send a custom command
  -i INTERFACE, --interface INTERFACE
                        network interface to use (e.g. en0)
  -t {all,0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8}, --target {all,0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8}
                        use all speakers or only the selected one
  -v, --version         show program's version number and exit
```

## Note

The tool was only tested with a pair of Neumann KH 80 DSP speakers and a KH 750 DSP subwoofer under macOS Monterey. Python3 must be installed on macOS to use the tool. Communication with the speakers is exclusively via IPv6. Therefore, it must be activated in the operating system.

Use at your own risk.
